magento/devdocs#: Add custom shipping carrier (#4371)
magento/devdocs: guides/v2.1/howdoi/checkout/checkout-add-custom-carrier.md

                    <source_model>Magento\Config\Model\Config\Source\Yesno</source_model>
                    <frontend_class>shipping-skip-hide</frontend_class>
                </field>
                <field id="sort_order" translate="label" type="text" sortOrder="90" showInDefault="1" showInWebsite="1" showInStore="0">
                    <label>Sort Order</label>
                </field>
            </group>
        </section>
    </system>
</config>
```

### Source code of `app/code/Vendor/CustomShipping/etc/config.xml`

File specifies default values for custom shipping module options and shipping module model - `Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping`.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Store:etc/config.xsd">
    <default>
        <carriers>
            <customshipping>
                <active>0</active>
                <title>Custom Shipping Title</title>
                <name>Custom Shipping Method Name</name>
                <shipping_cost>10</shipping_cost>
                <sallowspecific>0</sallowspecific>

>                 <sort_order>999</sort_order>

Reviewer: I would suggest adjusting the sort order value to 10-20 or so. Using the ~max values is not the best practice in case of custom modules (when every module developer uses similar values).

Author: Thank you, @rogyar !

**fixed**

                <model>Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping</model>
            </customshipping>
        </carriers>
    </default>
</config>
```

> ## Step 3: Create configuration file {#carrier-model}

Reviewer: Please, check the step names. We are creating too many configuration files 😀

Author: yes, good point!

😊

Author: **fixed**

### Source code of `app/code/Vendor/CustomShipping/Model/Carrier/Customshipping.php`

```php
<?php

namespace Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier;

use Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateRequest;
use Magento\Shipping\Model\Carrier\AbstractCarrier;
use Magento\Shipping\Model\Carrier\CarrierInterface;

/**
 * Custom shipping model
 */
class Customshipping extends AbstractCarrier implements CarrierInterface
{
    /**
     * @var string
     */
    protected $_code = 'customshipping';

    /**
     * @var bool
     */
    protected $_isFixed = true;

    /**
     * @var \Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\ResultFactory
     */

>     protected $_rateResultFactory;

Reviewer: The `$_code` and `$_isFixed` are inherited from the parent class. `$_rateResultFactory`and `$_rateMethodFactory` are introduced within the scope of the current class. So, let's follow the best practices wherever we can by removing the underscore from `$_rateResultFactory`and `$_rateMethodFactory` and changing scope to private.

Author: **implemented**

Thank you for advise! 👍

    /**
     * @var \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\MethodFactory
     */
    protected $_rateMethodFactory;

    /**
     * @param \Magento\Framework\App\Config\ScopeConfigInterface $scopeConfig
     * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\ErrorFactory $rateErrorFactory
     * @param \Psr\Log\LoggerInterface $logger
     * @param \Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\ResultFactory $rateResultFactory
     * @param \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\MethodFactory $rateMethodFactory
     * @param array $data
     */
    public function __construct(
        \Magento\Framework\App\Config\ScopeConfigInterface $scopeConfig,
        \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\ErrorFactory $rateErrorFactory,
        \Psr\Log\LoggerInterface $logger,
        \Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\ResultFactory $rateResultFactory,
        \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\MethodFactory $rateMethodFactory,
        array $data = []
    ) {
        $this->_rateResultFactory = $rateResultFactory;
        $this->_rateMethodFactory = $rateMethodFactory;

>         parent::__construct($scopeConfig, $rateErrorFactory, $logger, $data);

Reviewer: Please, put the parent constructor invocation to the very beginning of the constructor. 
```suggestion
       parent::__construct($scopeConfig, $rateErrorFactory, $logger, $data);
       $this->_rateResultFactory = $rateResultFactory;
       $this->_rateMethodFactory = $rateMethodFactory;
```

Author: **done**

Author: **done**

---
layout: tutorial
group: how-do-i
subgroup:
title: Add custom shipping carrier
subtitle: Customize Checkout
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
menu_order: 5
level3_subgroup: checkout-tutorial
functional_areas:
  - Checkout
---

This topic describes how to add a custom shipping carrier.

> To add new shipping carrier to the Magento checkout, do the following:

Author: **done**

1. [Create a new module](#create-module)

> 2. [Add carrier configuration](#create-configuration)

Author: **done**

> 3. [Create carrier model](#carrier-model)

Author: **done**

> 4. [Enable module](#enable-module)

Author: **done**

> ## Step 1: Create a new module {#create-module}

Reviewer 2: I'm curious if the sections here are enough for someone to create a new module. There are no instructions, just source code snippets.

Reviewer 2: Should there be a "To create a new module" list with simple steps on how to utilize each of these source code snippets?

Author: > I'm curious if the sections here are enough for someone to create a new module. There are no instructions, just source code snippets.

@shrielenee , this guide is for developers. Working source code is the best instruction. Please believe me. 😊

Author: > Should there be a "To create a new module" list with simple steps on how to utilize each of these source code snippets?

No, Let's leave all steps as they are.

> Let's call an example module as `Vendor_CustomShipping`.

Author: **done**

        "magento/module-backend": "100.1.*",
        "magento/module-shipping": "100.1.*",
        "magento/module-catalog": "101.0.*",
        "magento/module-sales-rule": "100.1.*",
        "magento/module-directory": "100.1.*",
        "magento/module-quote": "100.1.*",
        "magento/framework": "100.1.*"
    },
    "type": "magento2-module",
    "license": [
        "OSL-3.0",
        "AFL-3.0"
    ],
    "autoload": {
        "files": [
            "registration.php"
        ],
        "psr-4": {
            "Vendor\\CustomShipping\\": ""
        }
    },
    "version": "1.0.0"
}
```

### Source code of `app/code/Vendor/CustomShipping/etc/module.xml`

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:framework:Module/etc/module.xsd">
    <module name="Vendor_CustomShipping" >
        <sequence>
            <module name="Magento_Store"/>
            <module name="Magento_Sales"/>
            <module name="Magento_Quote"/>
            <module name="Magento_SalesRule"/>
        </sequence>
    </module>
</config>
```

## Step 2: Add module configuration {#create-configuration}

> 

Reviewer 2: We do not stack headings with no sentences in between. Add a sentence for this ##; Something like "To add a module configuration use the following source code snippets..."

Author: > We do not stack headings with no sentences in between. Add a sentence for this ##; Something like "To add a module configuration use the following source code snippets..."

**added**

### Source code of `app/code/Vendor/CustomShipping/etc/adminhtml/system.xml`

> Declares custom shipping module options:

Reviewer 2: This suggested revision is still relevant.

> Declares custom shipping module options:

Author: yes. 😊 

**implemented**

                </field>
                <field id="specificcountry" translate="label" type="multiselect" sortOrder="70" showInDefault="1" showInWebsite="1" showInStore="0">
                    <label>Ship to Specific Countries</label>
                    <source_model>Magento\Directory\Model\Config\Source\Country</source_model>
                    <can_be_empty>1</can_be_empty>
                </field>
                <field id="showmethod" translate="label" type="select" sortOrder="80" showInDefault="1" showInWebsite="1" showInStore="0">
                    <label>Show Method if Not Applicable</label>
                    <source_model>Magento\Config\Model\Config\Source\Yesno</source_model>
                    <frontend_class>shipping-skip-hide</frontend_class>
                </field>
                <field id="sort_order" translate="label" type="text" sortOrder="90" showInDefault="1" showInWebsite="1" showInStore="0">
                    <label>Sort Order</label>
                </field>
            </group>
        </section>
    </system>
</config>
```

### Source code of `app/code/Vendor/CustomShipping/etc/config.xml`

> File specifies default values for custom shipping module options and shipping module model - `Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping`.

Reviewer 2: This suggested revision is still relevant.

> File specifies default values for custom shipping module options and shipping module model - `Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping`.

Author: yes again 😊 😊 😊 

**implemented**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Store:etc/config.xsd">
    <default>
        <carriers>
            <customshipping>
                <active>0</active>
                <title>Custom Shipping Title</title>
                <name>Custom Shipping Method Name</name>
                <shipping_cost>10</shipping_cost>
                <sallowspecific>0</sallowspecific>
                <sort_order>15</sort_order>
                <model>Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping</model>
            </customshipping>
        </carriers>
    </default>
</config>
```

> ## Step 3: Create carrier model {#carrier-model}

Reviewer 2: 👀

> ## Step 3: Create carrier model {#carrier-model}

Author: > 👀

Explanations have been **added**.

     */
    public function collectRates(RateRequest $request)
    {
        if (!$this->getConfigFlag('active')) {
            return false;
        }

        /** @var \Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\Result $result */
        $result = $this->rateResultFactory->create();

        /** @var \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\Method $method */
        $method = $this->rateMethodFactory->create();

        $method->setCarrier($this->_code);
        $method->setCarrierTitle($this->getConfigData('title'));

        $method->setMethod($this->_code);
        $method->setMethodTitle($this->getConfigData('name'));

        $shippingCost = (float)$this->getConfigData('shipping_cost');

        $method->setPrice($shippingCost);
        $method->setCost($shippingCost);

        $result->append($method);

        return $result;
    }

    /**
     * @return array
     */
    public function getAllowedMethods()
    {
        return [$this->_code => $this->getConfigData('name')];
    }
}
```

## Step 4: Enable module {#enable-module}

```bash
bin/magento module:enable Vendor_CustomShipping
```

```bash
bin/magento setup:upgrade
```

> ## Screenshots

Reviewer 2: Add intro or explanatory content in the ## section---we don't have heading sections stacked without content in between. This is a general best practice.

Reviewer 2: 👀

Author: > 👀

**done**

> ### Custom shipping carrier. Backend settings.

Reviewer 2: Periods do not belong in headings. Reword.

Author: I do not understand this point. Could you please add more info about "periods". Thanks

Author: **fixed**

> ![Custom shipping carrier. Backend settings.]({{ page.baseurl }}/howdoi/checkout/images/checkout-add-custom-carrier-01.png)

Reviewer 2: Periods do not belong here.

Author: **fixed**

### Custom shipping carrier. Checkout.

> ![Custom shipping carrier. Checkout.]({{ page.baseurl }}/howdoi/checkout/images/checkout-add-custom-carrier-02.png)

Reviewer 2: Periods do not belong here.

Author: **fixed**

                    <label>Sort Order</label>
                </field>
            </group>
        </section>
    </system>
</config>
```

### Source code of `app/code/Vendor/CustomShipping/etc/config.xml`

The `config.xml` file specifies default values for custom shipping module options and the shipping module model, `Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping`:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="urn:magento:module:Magento_Store:etc/config.xsd">
    <default>
        <carriers>
            <customshipping>
                <active>0</active>
                <title>Custom Shipping Title</title>
                <name>Custom Shipping Method Name</name>
                <shipping_cost>10</shipping_cost>
                <sallowspecific>0</sallowspecific>
                <sort_order>15</sort_order>
                <model>Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping</model>
            </customshipping>
        </carriers>
    </default>
</config>
```

## Step 3: Create the carrier model {#carrier-model}

> In this example, `Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping` class is a skeleton of carrier model. You can extend it depends on own purposes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the `Vendor\CustomShipping\Model\Carrier\Customshipping` class is a skeleton of a carrier model. You can extend it to fit your needs. 
```

Author: **fixed**

> Carrier class implements `CarrierInterface` interface and retrieves all available shipping methods in the `getAllowedMethods` function. The `collectRates` function returns `\Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\Result` object if carrier method is available on checkout otherwise it returns `false` - carrier method is not applicable to shopping cart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The carrier class implements the `CarrierInterface` interface and retrieves all available shipping methods in the `getAllowedMethods` function. The `collectRates` function returns the `\Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\Result` object if the carrier method is available on checkout. Otherwise, it returns `false`---the carrier method is not applicable to the shopping cart.
```

Author: **fixed**

            return false;
        }

        /** @var \Magento\Shipping\Model\Rate\Result $result */
        $result = $this->rateResultFactory->create();

        /** @var \Magento\Quote\Model\Quote\Address\RateResult\Method $method */
        $method = $this->rateMethodFactory->create();

        $method->setCarrier($this->_code);
        $method->setCarrierTitle($this->getConfigData('title'));

        $method->setMethod($this->_code);
        $method->setMethodTitle($this->getConfigData('name'));

        $shippingCost = (float)$this->getConfigData('shipping_cost');

        $method->setPrice($shippingCost);
        $method->setCost($shippingCost);

        $result->append($method);

        return $result;
    }

    /**
     * @return array
     */
    public function getAllowedMethods()
    {
        return [$this->_code => $this->getConfigData('name')];
    }
}
```

## Step 4: Enable the module {#enable-module}

Run the commands below to register `Vendor_CustomShipping` module:

```bash
bin/magento module:enable Vendor_CustomShipping
```

```bash
bin/magento setup:upgrade
```

## Screenshots

### Custom shipping carrier backend settings

> 

Reviewer 2: Add something like "The backend settings for the custom shipping carrier appear as shown below."

Do something similar for the Custom shipping carrier on checkout section below.

Author: **done**
